>> Steve Kinney: So the main thing we
talked about is that what makes a service
worker really cool is that it can
intercept network requests, right?
That is what gives us the ability to say,
hey,
actually we would like to get
something from the network.
We would like to get something from cache.
We would like as Mike just
said have a fallback image.
This is where the service
worker really shines.
What we did yesterday was we had
a service worker that log stuff and
that was neat, but kind of misses
the point of a service worker.
And we saw that service workers
can add a event listener for
a fetch and this would because
XHR uses fetch under the hood,
loading images and
image check uses fetch under the hood.
This will be pretty much all network
request that our application makes.
And so we can just intercept
anything that its asking for.
And again, reframing it in the fact that
we are trying build on applications that
work on either on unreliable or
no network connection.
We can see how this concept
of any network request for
any kind of resource going to the service
worker can be incredibly powerful.
The event that the fetch listener
received has a lot of properties.
Let's just talk about a few of them.
Event.request is that request object
that you passed into the fetch or
that the browser passed it, right?
We saw two examples yesterday.
We saw an example where that was
a string and maybe an object options.
We saw an example we could literally
construct a new request with a string and
an object of options, right?
That request is why we have
this event.request and
that request has the properties
that we might expect.
It has the URL like what URL you're
requesting, what method, right?
You would access to the header and
so on and so forth.
The other really powerful one on the event
object is this method called respondWith.
So we receive an event that
has the request on it and
we have this method called respondWith
which means that we could theoretically
respond with something otherwise, right?
We could create our own response object
be like, I know what you requested,
here take this response.
So what that could look like?
So we will listen for fetch events.
If the request URL is where
we are currently like for
this current page respond with
a brand new response, but
we'll set the body of hello
in paragraph tags and
we'll set it as an HTML document and
I know that you requested this page.
I'm not even going to go to the network.
I'm going to just hand this back to you,
right?
If we don't use event.respondWith,
it passes through to the network.
So yesterday, we had
a self.addEventListener on fetch and
we put in a console log that didn't
break our network connections, right?
It went through the network.
We just logged something on the way.
In this case,
we are literally intercepting it.
Crafting our own response and
sending it back to the browser.
>> Speaker 2: One question,
since in this example we are sending HTML,
can we assume that service
workers are more secure
over the DOM that somebody
else may not have access?
>> Steve Kinney: I mean, if it's user
data, you can't assume anything, right,?
That is your code.
>> Speaker 2: Sure, but for cross site
scripting or all that kind of attacks or
changing some of.
>> Steve Kinney: I don't think
you can assume that it's more.
When you're dealing with arbitrary data,
you can't assume that it's safe.
I would definitely sterilize in this case.
>> Speaker 2: I mean, can a user or
a third party hack that
service worker's code and inject bad HTM?
>> Steve Kinney: So I can feel the Sun.
>> Speaker 2: Yeah.
>> Steve Kinney: You need to use
the same precautions here anywhere that
you would use,
you'd be rendering user data in HTML and
the typical convention is never trust
anything a user is capable of editing.
Always sanitize it, always sanitize it.
Most modern view layers like
React which we are using here,
they offer some protection for
you in that they don't let you render.
You could not change the name of
a grocery item to a script tag and
trigger like the download,
and execution of that script.
In this case,
there is no protection for you.
Because we are not using a library,
like you are going to get this HTML here.
So just be really careful when allowing
user values to be put into HTML,
because that you have to treat it like
code, because it can contain code.
>> Speaker 3: Yep,
it's not trusting user input.
It's not unique to the DOM, right?
In the same way, you wouldn't
trust it in a SQL query, right?
It is effectively not trusting
users is this global truth of
programming whether in Vasterdam,
whether in Vaxico.
Anytime you're evaluating user data,
you'll never trust users.
All right and the same is true in the
server's worker as it would be on the DOM,
as it would be on the server
in all those cases.